Chipper is a cli tool for managing tickets within files and operates on a directory within whatever the current scope of a project is.
Each "chip" of work is captured by chipper in files which are committed to git.
End users can set up chipper tickets in any directory they want.
The `chipper` key word opens to easy and intuitive commands for ticket management.
By default, chipper sets up a `chipper-tickets` directory within the current repo.
This directory has lots of plaintext files, with or without extension, and whose extensions do not matter.
Each file contains descriptive text.
This file, `initial-chipper-project-ideas`, is the first ever chipper ticket.
The goal of this ticket is:
 - to create a README file introducing the chipper project
 - to conceive of and document the basic commands and usage for chipper tickets
 - to conceive of and document configuration options and a config file format
 - based on this documentation, to create new chipper tickets in the project representing future work to complete the project.

A few thoughts:
 - having the full original tickets in the project itself is a sort of self-documentation for what was accomplished.
 - it probably makes sense for chipper to offer default Claude / AI instructions for augmenting what is documented in chipper ticket files
   That is, to to add summary data of actions taken, decisions made, and additional context behind the task.
 - It should be easy to avoid deploying chipper tickets at release time by omitting a directory.
   However, if someone wants to use a specialized chipper directory outside of the project, this should be possible
   with a simple chipper configuration file.
 - the configuration file can also specify details such as ticket filename extension (default to none)

In order to avoid lots of noise in the git log, it makes sense for the tickets to essentially remain in place.
I don't want to modify their extension or name, or change their location, to mark them in progress or completed.
Instead, there can be a single manifest file in the chipper directory.
This file can be used to change the ordering of tickets.
And it can also assign short, unique "slugs" for each ticket.

For example, this ticket is called "initial-chipper-project-ideas," but its slug might be "initial"
Or, if there's already something called "initial," the slug might be "chipper-ideas"

The point of the slugs is for purposes of naming tickets in cli operations, for re-ordering, marking in progress, marking complete, and so on.

It is common in engineering teams for a branch name to reference a Jira ticket number.
With unique slugs, we can still use the slug in the branch name.
But it is usually easier to type a slug than to type a ticket number.

There should definitely be a project identifier, which is set up in the configuration file in the project.
So, the actual ticket identifier is PROJECT-SLUG.
The project identifier can be anything, but by convention should be only 3 or 4 characters long.
Once we have a way to set this up, the project identifier for this project will be CHP.
So this ticket would be CHP-initial.

The manifest might have two sections, or might be two files.
One section or file specifies the mapping from filenames in the tickets directory to slugs.
Another section or file specifies the status and current priority level of each slug.

That means we need commands for adding, archiving, canceling, deleting, marking in progress, and marking complete each piece of work.
And these should be very simple commands which use very few tokens.
I should be able to hop in claude and say "start xyz ticket" and it runs an appropriate command to update the manifest.
Something like `chipper in_progress CHP-initial`

And of course, this command might respond with "there's another ticket in progress, want to finish that first" or whatever.

We can consider also allowing chipper to optionally handle git commands as well.

Since the files are in the git repo, when I first create tickets, they are not available to others.
Eventually I may want to be able to serve up a simple web interface based on the tickets in the repo.
The chipper commands and knowledge possessed by AI about how to use them should be simple enough a less technical product manager can still mess around with tickets.

If the current session is really just to create some tickets, and then commit them, something cool about this is that the human
can interact with the AI to create much more complete ticket documentation.

We start out with the tickets not containing attachments or screenshots or whatever.
In the future we could add this but we are keeping the scope small for now.
I will be the first user of chipper and will use it to track my own work in my own repo.
Some group usage and advanced features may be less than ideal until we focus on those things more.

In terms of prioritization, I believe in keeping tickets prioritized as they are added.
Ultimately, we should employ and insertion sort algorithm.
We keep the entire queue sorted at all times.
I can add a new ticket by simple creating a file.
Or I can use commands to add a new ticket.
At some point I might end up with many tickets which have not yet been added to a spot within the list.
The algorithm is:

for each unsorted ticket:
  present the project's midpoint ticket title and the title of the unsorted ticket.
  allow the end user to say which is more important.
  if the midpoint is more important, we now do the same comparison against the second half of the list.
  if the new ticket is more important, we now do the s ame comparison against the first half of the list.
  once we are down to a list size of under 10, we start showing that segment of the list
  and the end user may select an index explicitly, where to insert the new task
  or, we keep splitting up the list until we get down to a candidate list size of 1, do the comparison, and put the new task in the right place.

this should require log2(list size) comparisons to add the item in the appropriate spot.

If we have many unsorted items, we go through this algorithm for each one.

The manifest keeps track of list indexes by slug.

But, if we insert something high in the list, it means the rest of the list will have to update indexes.

Therefore, the indexes specified in the manifest should have space between them, so as to avoid frequent large sort index updates.

I do have more ideas. But I want to start with this, and have a conversation with claude. We will capture commands and specifications, create new tickets, and create a readme
with our resulting findings.